a man named Robert Boyle at Joshua.
And he just studied other books at Yale.
He was a brilliant choice in his own right.
And I just began to do it.
I hadn't read anything quite like it.
I read a lot of different people that I had never read.
And then, of course, Ulysses just took me into another world.
I mean, I didn't realize that he could do it.
I want you to think about, for our next talk about, I read where you are the perfect man for this job, that you were made for H.I.C.
I don't know about that.
There are a lot of common threads here.
They wanted a scholar, a scholar who worked in the field with the HRC straight strengths, where it would make sense.
They want somebody who had had academic responsibilities.
I've been a provost from the dean, and they want somebody who knew the book world.
I've been in the book world for 25 years.
I think there's kind of a dynamism that's expected here.
Probably.
Yes, I think that's true.
I think that's true.
I mean, because you were very successful at Tulsa, I guess.
It went well then.
Well, we'll talk tomorrow.
We sure will.
Thank you.
I appreciate it.
Tom, please.
Doctor, I'm writing a book for Random House on some of the great book collections and collectors that we put together over a period of 400 years.
Half the book will be history and half
is contemporary, and one of the major institutions I'm studying is Texas and the HRC.
And as I understand it, you have really a great collection of theater arts.
Yes.
Anywhere, perhaps.
There certainly are in the area.
Posters and design art and photographs, and not so much buying the script material of theater,
Lots of original artwork.
How long have you been here, Doctor?
Well, I started working in September of 65, right after the fire in the tower.
See, we started when the theater arts library started with the two floors on the tower, and nobody believed how much
how many things were crowded in the two floors.
So, we got here in the short of space the day we arrived.
Our first two big collections were the Albert Davis and Miss McCandle.
The Albert Davis collection was started in around 1874 in Mr. Davis's boyhood.
He waylaid Edwin Booth and said, asked him for a photograph, and Booth said, well, see my business manager, he'll be glad to give you one.
Mr. Davis says, but I don't want one of those.
The board found what he liked.
That's a great story.
And Booth's son gave it to him.
Was this in New York?
Probably.
Edwin Booth's home is now the Players Club in New York.
I know.
It's quite a wonderful place.
Have you been involved in the acquisition of materials?
Yes.
Deciding?
What's your focus been in terms of deciding?
what materials you wanted to get, I wonder.
Could you just give me a overview of... Well, for one thing, I'm a costume buff.
Really?
So, well, I've got lots of costume designs and set designs.
Could you name some of the principal figures, Dr. Crane, who are represented in that collection?
Well, Eleconda Benoit, and of course we had the Norman Bel Geddes collection when I came.
Also, our latest big costume acquisition was the B.J.
Simmons company.
How do you store these?
Are these stored here in this facility, or do you have room storage?
No, the Simmons is in the flat box.
It's out here at 29,000.
Is this something we could take a look at, do you think?
How do scholars make use of these?
How would 29,000 costume designers assist the scholar?
Well, they've been showing how things were, how shows were dressed.
And it's important to preserve them, number one, I guess.
And, well, costume students come up here.
But those date from around the 1880s to around the 1960s.
Most of the, a great deal of it is in the 20s and 30s.
You see, they even custom some Belasco shows.
Really?
And there are some movie designs as well.
The movie designs are very interesting.
Now, these are actually the designs as they appear on paper, not these.
You don't have any of the artifacts from the actual sets, do you?
Well, no.
We do have some costumes.
Of course, there are the famous five from Gone with the Wind.
And we have, well, we started collecting a few costumes with about eight costumes from the Diaglos era.
Right.
Five from Narcissus and three from The Life of the Plane.
And the Joffrey Ballet Company got some drawings of those costumes for their recreation.
So this is really quite an extensive collection here.
It is.
We have a large collection of 18th and early 19th century English playbills.
Drury Lane, Southern Garden, and Haymarket.
Are these purchased from dealers or at auction or gifts or whatever, right?
Some of them are given, some we buy.
We haven't been able to buy an awful lot because
Well, I got those costumes on fluke.
Marina Henderson got them in a collection and she wrote John Bolt here.
on the Slavic Lang with his faculty.
And somehow other than Pam's letter came to the HRC, and they—so it was about costumes and sent it to me.
And I phoned John Bolton and asked him if he was interested in these costumes, and he said, well, I'm interested in their bringing taxes.
So I got them.
Then I got a few more ballet costumes.
I got a costume from one of the four albums.
Did you know Dr. Ransom well when he was there?
Not really well.
No, I did know him.
I wonder what—I guess he provided the inspiration for all of this.
collecting activity, and I wonder if you could give me some sense of how he inspired you people, or what the mandate was.
You just mentioned earlier that, well, there's no money now to buy things, but apparently there was money then to buy things.
Yeah.
I wonder what the attitude was around, well, another wonderful golden days,
Well, he had quite a following.
I mean, he came up through the ranks of the English department.
I didn't know him well, and I didn't know what was behind it.
I didn't come on the same year until 65.
And he just knew who to talk to and what to say to them.
In terms of people in the state legislature or the regents?
Both.
Everyone.
And donors.
He was a great friend of Mr. Hummel himself.
They talk often of Harry Ransom's vision.
Is that a correct evaluation?
Yes, I think so.
He wanted an important library, and he realized that we'd never be able to catch up with the East Coast.
So, he decided that the first edition of a book was just an end product, and he was going after all the material that led up to it.
early on in this idea, and when these manuscripts and so forth would come on the market, he would hop in and buy them before people caught on to it.
He must have had wonderful sources of information, though, because I've seen a number of cases where he
He bought things before others even knew they were available, that they were being offered.
I just wonder, he must have really established an extraordinary network.
He must have.
And as you say, he must have had this wonderful backing of people in the state, I guess, who agreed that Texas should build a great, great collection.
I think what's remarkable is how it was done in such a short period of time.
Do you have any thoughts on that?
of such an accomplishment could have been done in such a short period of time?
Not really, except, you know, the story in, I believe, the book of Great Libraries.
Anthony Hobson's book, I think.
About this oversleeping and going to a sail with a trench coat on over his pajamas.
I haven't seen that.
You know, I can't find that book.
Well, we've got a few copies of it around.
Is that right?
I try to get it at Widener.
I've been doing a lot of my research at Widener at Harvard, because we live close to Boston.
And that book is, Tom Staley mentioned that I should read it.
I can't find it.
Well, maybe he'll lend you a copy.
I think there are two or three floating around there.
I wouldn't mind just getting a Xerox of that particular entry.
I guess it does give a little bit of the flavor of what John did.
Yeah.
And he would buy the stock and trade of a bookstore.
I'm sorry, what?
I say he would buy the stock and trade of a bookstore if necessary.
No, not quite that bad.
That's the Henry Huntington syndrome, I think, where Huntington would buy entire libraries.
Well, he's got a bunch of writers' libraries here.
Yeah, well, those, of course, are really interesting as well.
There was a store in San Antonio that provided scripts for German
We have the whole stock.
But you've been here from the beginning, basically.
I guess 58 is when it started, but I think you came over in 65.
You were here during some exciting times.
Not so much.
Ransom was sort of fading from the scene.
The director in my days, when I started, was Warren Rodman.
He's still around.
He's around?
Oh, yes.
Can you think of anything to ask Dr. King?
Dr. Crane, you just walked us into a little room, and could you describe what we're looking at here, hanging by these, they look like meat hooks, but I know that's not what they are.
No, they're odd puppets.
They're old characters from the Orlando Furioso.
And they're Sicilian.
And they were used, apparently, all of these marionettes.
They just played the same thing.
They made a sort of cereal out of the Orlando Furioso and played it over and over and over again.
These are marionettes?
Mm-hmm.
So they were manipulated by strings then?
Not entirely, sorry.
Oh, by that, in other words, they would hold that handle and probably... Yeah, they could make them walk and sort of fight and various... Were they done on a stage, or was it like street theater, I wonder?
I'm not sure.
I think it was a regular theater.
Uh-huh.
And these are of what national origin are they again now?
They're Italian.
Sicilian.
They're beautiful.
There's conquistadors, and they're a knight in armor, a priest.
There's a fellow with a club who looks like a caveman.
Well, that is Orlando Furioso.
We have one of them in armor, and one of them after he went crazy.
There are probably 50 of these in here, I would estimate.
No, 60.
60.
And these are from a single collection?
And whose collection is this?
Well, Mr. Stanley Marcus used this for his fortnight in Italy, in Neiman Marcus.
And when the fortnight was over, he gave them to the university.
That's a great story.
So they were used for just a fortnight.
Well, yes, they were part of the decoration.
You know, every year, the Neiman Marcus used to have a fortnight in a different country, and they would decorate the whole store and have food from that particular country.
So these were actually just created?
Oh, no.
They were—he bought them from one of these puppeteering families.
I see.
So how old would you say these puppets are?
Well, I think they're about 125.
Really?
And the colors have remained just beautiful.
They were restored.
Here at the university?
So that's, again, part of your—
What you do is you don't just acquire and preserve, you also restore where necessary, such as in this case.
Well, we made an awful lot of people unhappy when we restored these.
I can understand.
They're beautiful, though.
No, we also have some turnabout puppets, you know, the Turnabout Theatre of Yale Puppet has had.
We have the portrait of it.
And then there are— They're beautiful.
These are works of art, aren't they?
Did you say?
Yeah.
And here are some signs.
Now these are just signs, I guess.
I see.
Oh, these identify the—
Yeah, look.
See the canto and the .
I see.
Okay.
That looks beautiful.
You mean in back?
Yes.
Behind on the file cabinet.
There are so many treasures here, I imagine, after a while, it's hard to move around.
some models that were probably used in the, uh, uh, Chihuahua.
Uh-huh.
And this is a turbinosed spot.
It was used in the Paramount Theater until just the recent past.
Really?
When I got some basic lighting equipment in.
So this is kind of like a little Smithsonian in many ways, isn't it?
Yes.
Would you agree with that?
A lot of these— Very little.
Well, these are artifacts.
I mean, you really can't call these library materials.
No, they're more—we're a mixture of library and museum on this floor and the sixth floor, especially.
The sixth floor has the photography collection.
The big trunks belonged to a senior salesman.
There were sample trunks.
One of them held about 110 pieces of scenery painted on cardboard, leg and drop.
And the other trunk had a miniature stage with complete lighting equipment and a switchboard.
And what were they used for?
Well, they were used to—
So the gas customers— Oh, they were like samples.
Yeah.
And I see.
How long ago was that?
Well, it was into the 20s, I believe.
He worked—he worked for the Sosklin and Landis Studio in Chicago, and he dealt mainly with Scottish Rite temples.
That's right.
That would make a wonderful display.
So if you were to open this up, all those things would be inside there right now?
Yeah.
Hopefully it could be outside.
Yeah, and you know, he could show his scenery on our lights and take the artist and send it to the studio, and the studio would paint the scenery, build and paint the scenery, and send it back.
Okay.
And Doctor, are these original films, or are these... Yes, those are Carl Stanley Gardner.
Oh.
Perry Mason.
This is all part of the Gardner archive, which is... Oh, that's... They have this whole room reproduced here someplace.
I guess we have to see that.
Oh, yeah, that's in... That's in the academics.
Oh, is it?
On the fourth floor.
I see.
Okay.
You know everything here, don't you?
Oh, look at that.
Tyrone Power, Loretta Young, Annabella.
These are the original paintings for posters.
Can you imagine that?
Oh, this is the original where they took the poster.
This is the original art.
So you have a collection of these, then?
Just a few.
Do you know how fast that would go for itself with these collections?
Beautiful.
Annabella was the movie.
I wonder who the artist was on that.
Do you know, Donald?
Oh.
Ma.
Sorry.
That's OK.
I'm just curious.
Speak up.
No.
The Frederick Madden illustration collection.
That's from the Liz, yeah.
From the Frederick.
By FC Madden.
There you go.
Beautiful.
It's 52 years old.
See, they really worked on these, didn't they?
And then, of course, they make lithographs from these.
And movie posters are a really hot, collectible item right now.
Tell you about it.
Is that right?
Tell me about it, he said.
I think that's about it.
This must be like a little playland for you.
Toys, have they?
Look at this wonderful old photograph here.
Young Miss Shirley Temple.
So these are, let's see, Bigamist Spouse, Part 1, Bigamist Spouse, Part 2, Betrayed Bride, Part 1.
So these are the films of the Perry Mason television series.
And that's probably the whole run.
That's probably all of them.
And look, there are hundreds of them.
And we have the strips out in the hall.
They do.
So it's one, two, three, four, five.
So I see 20 shelves, 20 racks of film.
Yeah, that's quite a few.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.
There must be at least 20 for a row.
And that's Valgetti's drawing table.
Let's say at some point it might work its way into a permanent exhibit or even a... Yes.
A lot of great things were done on this.
Yeah.
The Scarlet O'Hara designs?
Yes, they commanded.
They went for, I don't know how much, but it was over $7,000.
Oh, yeah.
Even the unsigned ones.
Hmm.
And you have some of the designs here?
Not though.
That's how I know they went to more than $7,000.
Did Texas bid for them, do you know?
And Texas didn't win.
That doesn't happen very often.
That's the oldest English playbill.
Is that what it is?
What is it?
I am afraid that this might be.
Theater Royal and Drury Lane.
David Garrick.
Is this by Garrick?
No.
Garrick's right there.
Leasy.
Leasy, yeah.
Well, that's pretty nice.
What are these things with all the canvas?
The folio-sized packages, several hundred of them I would estimate numbered.
It's a big letter over there.
They're actually letters to the alphabet.
Simmons kept scrap books.
Simmons?
Who was Simmons?
Oh, the costume house.
I see.
They kept scrapbooks on shows that had been by other, that had been costumed by other companies, just to see, sort of compare.
These, what you just pulled that out of was the, these are collections of playbills from the United Kingdom.
I see United Kingdom, Coburn Garden, a lot of Coburn Garden.
Look at, we actually start in the eight, look at these from 1795, Connie.
These are playbills that are almost 200 years old.
Our oldest American playbill was 1773.
Which is what?
I think it was.
They were doing the West End here.
Uh-huh.
So this is a very exceptional collection, then, I would say.
Would you say this is a preeminent collection of what we're looking at right here?
I don't know if I'd go that far.
There must be something similar in England, right?
Okay.
Manuscript material had to be given export license.
I'm sorry.
I think I only got a little bit of that.
You said you think that this library prompted the British to pass that law?
Yes.
Requiring export licenses for manuscript material.
Oh, manuscript material under 75 years old.
I think some people wanted to make it 35 years later.
Great.
Dr. Hill, thank you enough.
Appreciate it.
My pleasure.
Thank you, sir.
It was a pleasure to meet you.
Okay, we're on.
We were talking to Ray Dogner, and he was telling us a little bit about his connection with Gloria Swanson, and I guess you were working at the UN?
Yes.
I had a wonderful ten years there as a producer of television and film, and we had scripts that needed introductions.
We could call them theater people, notable celebrities.
to appear for two minutes and introduce a film like Adlai Stevenson would introduce a documentary, or Swanson would do something on children's fun. Or Helen Hayes would come in and do something on the arts or whatever. So we have this marvelous roster of people to call and their agents said wonderful and they would come in and everything was done because they were they were doing it for the United Nations. Well I met Gloria that way and we became instant friends
And our friendship went on for 25 years because I met her in 57 when I arrived in New York.
So over the years we became such good pals.
So when I was working at Columbia, I was teaching part-time up there a video workshop.
And she said, I've done my book and Random House has made a mess of my archives.
She said, they have trampled, they have gone through my archives and, you know, unmercifully.
Would you come and straighten them out?
Because I want to prepare them for their home, wherever that is.
And I said, where do you want them to go?
She said, really, in New York, at Astoria Studio.
Just as she wanted it.
Yes.
But you see, the mayor and that whole conglomerate down there in Astoria could never get their act together.
to get the money together and to build
the kind of housing that she wanted for her collection.
She wanted a library reproduced.
Her library, which is beautiful, her library.
That's a major thing that Texas does offer its people, by the way.
We'll just throw in.
That is an inducement that brings people here.
I know, but I don't think they want to talk about it anymore because we're so desperate for space.
And the rooms we have there, we need that space desperately.
But Dr. Gloria was
quite interested in. She wanted her library reproduced, like so many others. Well uh I said she said I don't want the academy to have it and she said Astoria. We met with them. The mayor and everybody she was kind of miffed because she didn't get an Oscar. She should have had that Oscar those years and they made that Titanic film. My god Elicentia Boulevard was brilliant and she was passed over well
So I said, let's go to the Smithsonian.
She loved that idea.
So I talked to the Smithsonian in New York, the branch of the Smithsonian at Cooper Union, and they said, does she need money?
And I said, yes, she'd like to be paid for this collection.
They said, Texas.
And they said, go to Texas.
They have the finest conservation besides us in the country. They'll take care of her things. They wanted to go on forever. When I told her that she said go down there so I called and they sent for me and I came down here. Who did you to deal with? Decker Turner, Mr. Turner. Well it's a marvelous story. Gosh they were after Texas
have to win.
They will not lose.
Football, you name it.
Or if they're bidding against something, they've got to win.
Well, they were after the Stravinsky collection.
And they thought they had it.
They had bid a lot of money for Igor Stravinsky.
And by the way, his archives were in the Gloria Swanson's building in New York.
So funny.
Swanson and Stravinsky.
Well,
The judge decided they should, the Swarinski's should go to California.
And Mr. Kraft, who was Swarinski's assistant.
Oh, sorry.
I just want to make sure we're working because this is so good.
All right.
It is.
He wanted to go to California because they'd offered him a professorship in music there.
So he pushed for California.
And the judge decided against Texas, which, as he felt, would be more accessible in California.
Well, it did.
It was told, they were told it would go to Texas.
to California.
Turner came to contest it, went to court, and he lost it.
Well, he told me, he said, I hate going back without it.
And he said, and when he came to see me, he said, I'll take Swanson.
If I can't take Stravinsky back, I'll take Swanson.
And I said, yes, there's another rest.
Selznick?
Swanson?
and it was so funny. So he I uh he wasn't wild about theater. It was not, although he we've got it we've got to give him credit. He did he did buy the salesman for us. So wasn't he when the boys. Oh yes oh very very. That's the parole story that the chalmers will tell you yeah anyway
So we're back to Gloria.
So when I went to Smithsonian, they said,
Finest conservation.
So when Turner said, come down and look us over and tell Ms.
Swanson that if you like us, we'll offer you some money.
And they did.
And so she said, well, I think we should go there because I want to come down there and lecture to the kids.
She said, I want to talk to them about what they put in their stomachs.
It was all health and nutrition.
She was gaga, and rightly so.
No.
Howard seems to think that he got it.
No, I know that little story, because Howard dealt with me.
She saw Howard for 20 minutes.
And then she said, he said he ate macrobiotic food for a whole lot of disease.
We should turn that off.
That was, I'll tell you, my friend, that was an absolute fabrication.
He saw her 20 minutes.
And he was only there that day.
And I showed him what we had.
And he was very interested.
And he sent her, oh, I mean, this man, Idar, the Great Panache, he sent her, I think, three or four dozen roses or carnations.
It's just the room was, you know, it was like a real Hollywood.
Oh, he worked.
And he wrote a lovely letter.
He likes great letters.
Beautiful.
And she said,
Well, I think Texas has the upper hand here, because she said, conservation, they're going to keep my thing forever.
And I told her, I loved it here.
And I wanted to get out of New York.
Was this part of the thing that you'd come with the collection?
Not really.
So I hit it off with Turner.
We got on very well.
And he said, well, if she decides not to, he said, will you consider coming and being my assistant curator of theater arts?
I said, you betcha.
Because my background was film.
He needed a film person here.
Dr. Crane was theater.
So I said, yes.
So I told Gloria, I've been offered the job, she said, well, I'm going to accept their offer.
And she said, and I want you to take my collection down there.
So it's a lovely story.
It's a very, well, it's great.
And then we were getting... What year was this, by the way?
Well, she, I came, she died April of 83, and I arrived in January of 83.
I was preparing her exhibition for her to come down to present it to the campus.
And she died.
Now, how is this?
Does he pay a million dollars for it?
No, I can't.
No.
You see?
Bless his heart.
He's right out of 20th Century Fox.
Yeah.
He really is.
And look what he's got.
He's got Roddy McDowell working for him.
He's got Joan Fontaine.
He's got everybody.
Betty Davis.
And he's got James Mason.
Those collections.
Oh, my.
When I interviewed James Mason, I said, where is your collection going?
He said, we're to Boston.
i mean you've got to handle tomorrow because he got at people he does it without money by the way he does
He's a very gracious man.
Yes, he is.
He has nothing but wonderful things to say about it.
I will show this on the record.
He has nothing but wonderful.
I called him the day before he's coming down.
I said, Howard, what can you tell me?
What should I be looking for?
He said, that place is going to blow your eyes out.
He said, it's spectacular.
I took my back to that.
Well, that's very generous.
But I got such a kickoff because a million dollars, I mean, he's really a bundle.
You said there was money, so there wasn't some money.
There was, but it certainly wasn't a million dollars.
Did it come out of appropriated funds?
At that time, I'm sure Dr. Staley told him, Mr. Turner was getting $2 million a year.
He was having $2 million to do.
At that time, when I arrived, I was told by the business office, they said, well, our allotment is $2 million a year.
Oh, of course it is.
That's just from the state.
That's account that you're getting from benefactors.
But you see, Ransom instilled this in this crowd, and you'll get that from Griffin, I'm sure, because he charmed everybody.
And I'll tell you, someone else who loves these stories about Dr. Ransom is the lady you're going to meet next, is Kathleen Gee, who's here.
who worked under Radsen and knew him very well.
She, Kathleen Gee, is a curator of the art collection.
And this is another exciting, you see Carlton Lakes materials there, the captoes and all those great, great art.
But, well, how are we doing?
Should we be on our way?
She never got the chance to come down and talk to students.
The first thing I'll ask them, she said, what's in your stomach today?
What do you eat?
Then she said, I'll get around to those other things, my career.
That's later.
But she was, you know, her health and nutrition files here are fantastic.
She began with Rachel Carson.
Worrying about the environment.
Worrying about all of this.
Early on.
Very much.
And I've got files.
So many feet.
Of her files of health and nutrition.
Cancer.
Everything we're worried about.
The letters she wrote all over Europe.
Everywhere in Europe.
She corresponded to all the great doctors.
That's right.
No.
He's happy.
All right, Ransom got the permission from the Board of Regents in 1957 to the ordinary HRC, what other place is called Special Collections, and he named it the Humanities Research Center, very cleverly knowing that after this day, there was a college.
Harry Ransom Center, but— Are you speculating on this, or do you think that— I'm speculating, because I got to know him not
that well, but for six years, and finally to the point where he'd call and say, well, what do you think?
Actually, he called me just a couple weeks before he died and said, I have this wonderful collection of 1,500 paintings in New York.
Where can you put them?
I said, don't worry, I'll put them in the blank.
Can you just call it like that?
Yes, yes.
things that he just purchased, that he was about to purchase.
See, I don't know whether it was a gift.
It was probably a gift.
If there was anything people liked to do, it would give him things.
The great famous story about Ransom, I'll show you his portrait down here, was he was so, he had such a presence that he didn't have to say very much.
And the great story is this man came out of his office and somebody had been waiting outside and said, what did he say?
He said, I don't know, but I gave him $20,000.
Is that an apocryphal story?
No, it's a true story.
It's because the man told me what he's been doing.
Could you tell me, just before we, how long you've been here and what you've got?
I've been here 20 years.
All right, let's go back to 57.
He got the board written permission.
In 61, he appointed a director.
Dr. Warren Roberts, and he had a bookkeeper, and that was all he had.
That was his stack in 61, and there was no space on campus for the marvelous collection, except the tower.
Well, the tower was designed to be stacked, so that when you get off the elevator, you go down this
which goes all the way around the tower, and there's very tiny offices.
And this was the arrangement.
As the boxes began to appear in the early 60s, they were just stuffed into the tower.
And I remember when I came in 1970, going to see his assistant he brought from the history department, where he was teaching, with Mrs. Francis Hudson.
He did everything.
She arranged all her parties.
She talked to the janitor.
She negotiated with the captain's representatives and the governor's office.
She was just it.
And I got up the elevator, walked down the hall to her office, which was stacked to the ceiling with cardboard boxes so that you had to walk like this.
And there was a Tiffany lamp sitting right in the corner.
And she rounded the corner and leaned left.
I mean, it was coming so fast.
Did anyone have a sense of what was coming in?
Or was he really seizing the moment to get stuff that was available?
Both.
But he knew.
He knew what was good and what was good.
All you had to do was tell him.
He was so well-read and so cautious.
And he was going back to 1900, first man.
This university opened in 1983.
There was a man named Dr. Battle, who became a legend in the history.
And it was his dream in the early 1900s to make this the cultural center of the Southwest, because there isn't anything else.
It certainly wasn't since.
And he began collecting.
He bought what is now known as the Battle Cast.
That is, they were
Italian copies of all of the Vatican, the fine works in the Vatican collections.
And they're now in the second photo there.
And then the crown of culture sort of passed on to a dean called Dr. Griffith.
And his interest was purely personal.
He was a teacher in the English department.
He had no money to spend.
But he tried to, interested in giving to the university.
And so Ransom sort of picked up the spark, Griffin was one of his features, and carried it on.
This is where it began, in other words.
Well, yes.
What I've heard the phrase, I've heard often over and over, is the vision, the vision, the man had a vision.
The vision.
Well, he had the vision probably without these other men, but at least they gave him a precedent, and they gave him some knowledge of what we all really own.
You understand, before HRC, there'd be no inventory.
The Wren collection goes back quite a bit.
All right.
In the tower, there was this exquisite three, four rooms there, wood panel, two stories.
At the top was Buss and Homer and people.
That was the Stark Library.
And this was the rare books library.
It was beautiful wood paneled and decorated with the furniture of the family.
And a wonderful lady named Fanny Ratchford used to serve two there at his work line.
They were one of the brightest students who was invited to there.
But that was the only repository of the University of Australia.
There's this beautiful section of the ivory tower and the tower.
Was that the purpose of the tower, by the way?
Was it intended to be a repository for books?
Library.
Yeah, the library was back.
Two elevators that went up in there.
But that's why the tower was built to be a library?
Is that it?
Yes, primarily.
But those rooms at that time had
were mostly offices.
Space has always been a problem.
And so, when I came in, the paintings, they had built rough stacks for the paintings.
Then Dr. Renson, in 1965, began to build, I forget when he became chancellor, he was chancellor for nine years, so he became chancellor about 62.
In other words, he got
H.R.C.
going, Vendikin, the Chancellor, and the Board of Regents of Dorothy.
And all he had to do was go down and stand before them once a year and say, I want $2 million.
They didn't even ask him what for.
They absolutely trusted him.
Totally.
And that was just the beginning.
I mean, that was $2 million from the state.
He managed to get additional millions from private benefactors.
Individuals.
All right, I'll show you the collections on this floor.
Each first—every time I show the Knopf Room, the Tinker Room, the Dolby Room, the Hobbit's Bell, and the Gardener, people say, why did they—this is such a strange place.
For Knopf, particularly.
Oh, probably.
It was a quintessential New York publisher.
There's only one answer.
They like Dr. Wink, that it did.
Actually, well, there's an addendum to that, and that in 60 stores,
Ransom started building this building as an interim building.
See, really the chancellor required a great deal of entertainment.
We had one president who was fired because he forgot to include the right people in his free football game.
Who is that?
Spurs.
He got fired?
The other thing he didn't do was find H.R.
Philly.
I thought that was more important than the football.
He got a letter shot down to the door the next morning for the job.
But anyway, nice man.
Just came from Michigan, didn't know a thing about Texas.
Anyway.
So, if you'll notice, this beautiful floor used to have an outer court.
That was a courtyard in the center with glass on and satuary, and it was very elegant.
And this floor was designed for one special collection room, because at that time he would accept the material from people.
They always say, I'll give you my material if you give me the room.
There was a lot to do with having this huge, enormous reading here, almost read it for years, when you cannot decide if you might consider doing the works.
If you had space available for people, it jumps the chance, as did Mishnah.
It was between UCLA and UC, and I'm getting ahead of myself.
All right, so this floor was just a marvelous moonlight candlelight.
at which he would have at least 200 people per capita, I would say, that each one probably wound up giving him as much as $100.
He doesn't appear anything.
He formed the chancellor's council, which consists of people who give $10,000 each year to the chancellor's purse.
When did he do this?
About when did he start this?
Well, I see if he became chancellor in 62, it was 62 or three.
So he did this right off the bat.
This is how Earl Stanley Gardner got snatched.
He was always being honored for his work in the criminal law.
He got innocent people out.
The Texas Bar brought him here to give him an honorary membership in the Texas Bar.
He was introduced to Ransom, Ransom, Stuckman immediately on the chance of counseling.
He became good friends of Dr. Mentor of the Board of Reasons.
They became hunting buddies.
And Dr. Mentor says they've cooked this earthen and earthen study up on hunting with them.
But there was a precedent also that William Faulkner has just opened that Oxford, Mississippi
but it's a very effective device isn't it though i mean to offer a person we're not just going to take your things and keep them and make them available as a scholar but we're going to
We're going to recreate your personality for those people that really do it.
And that is a pretty persuasive monument to offer to some of it.
Right.
The second question is, Earl Stanley Gardner was no author, so why he should not have a place in that literary tradition?
And the answer to that is that he was certainly an influence, if nothing else.
But Dr. Ransom's idea was to build the famous mystery story collection in the United States, because we have all of our becoming daughters, everything, correspondence, including 72 photographs, which he lectured.
His son died in World War I, and he spent most of his life trying to contact with some of the mediums.
He got interested, and he wrote a book on spiritualism.
He and Joe Dini got together and tried to, he was always trying to recouple.
His mother, wasn't it?
Yes.
And they did a long series of things together, and both came to the conclusion that most mediums did all of that.
But anyway, we had this marvelous
pictures of ghosts, little forms hovering over, ladies sitting on gardens, you see.
But, well, the material here is so incredible.
What is the name of this building?
Is this built as an annex to the HIC, or what do I call this?
This was before.
This is 64.
This building.
And, uh, this, only the fourth floor is what we call the academic center.
The Jack Josie's, that's all I'm going to use to engage this room down here, called the Jack Josie Honors Room, which is to be used just for honor students.
Well, that didn't work out at all.
But this whole floor was open for students all day long.
Anybody could come up and sit down and soak up the culture.
And I'll show you each individual room had the library and the donors in it, and the artifacts.
And the manuscripts collection was here.
Because they were the most precious.
And the vault, where my paintings are now, I'll show you, was building a book set for the manuscripts at that time.
Then he started building his dream house, which is the Harry Ransom thing.
And we were all still in the tower.
Six months before the building opened, James Mishner came and said, I can't make up my mind between UCLA and Texas.
And so Ransom invited me.
He called the chairman of the architecture department, Taniguchi.
and the Tonakuchi's gave a dinner party for James Michonne.
It was, Mrs. Tonakuchi was Japanese, and he gave a speech on the floor, a Japanese dinner party for James Michonne, whose wife is Japanese.
Pretty, pretty.
I understand Mr. Lansom now.
I mean, he didn't miss, he didn't miss anything.
There wasn't anything he didn't know.
Public relations, public affairs.
Anything had to do that turned out the two women as being
interned in the same camp in Nevada during World War II.
So I'm sure that it was announced within the week that the collection was coming here.
Oh, before the next day was.
Anyway, so I'll explain to you now why I didn't get it.
That was my space.
It was one of the first years ago.
that the art collection came here when the manuscript moved into the new building.
And Michener Collection moved into the first three floors of that building instead of acres and materials, which has turned out to be a catastrophic mistake, because if you walk into that building, you don't see HRC.
You don't know what you're seeing.
What has your title been through the years?
Have you had a number of... Well, I've always been a curator of the art collection.
A couple of years after I started here, I got, there was a full-time person running the floor, which is open for entertainers to all universities or universities, which is another full-time job.
So I did that until just last year, because I've never been able to spend enough time in the art collection because of that particular job.
I'm hoping they're going to hire somebody else now.
I'm not supposed to be in charge of that thing.
I'm hiring one.
So I'm the curator of the editor of the art book.
And you've written a few wonderful books.
Two excellent books on that.
Well, one of the interesting things is the artwork about.
I read about them.
There's something like 80,000?
Is that right?
No, there are 100,000 pieces in the collection.
But this is not the, you know, seven million manuscripts, two and a half million, uh, two and a half million photographs, and figure out just a couple hundred things.
But I mean, a hundred thousand artworks by, by, with literary connections?
Well, you have to, you have to include anything from the writing.
Well, I understand that, but I mean, it's, but they all have a literary connection with it.
Well, not all of them.
See, this collection includes everything that's given to the university since 1913.
It's not just Fort Ramsey collected.
Well, so he added, you know, he built on that.
He built on that, in other words.
Right.
The first gift I was given to this university in 1883 was done by Elizabeth Nade, who was a German sculptor who was famous in Europe at 21.
She did King Elizabeth's portrait in his palace.
She did King George of Hanover.
She did David Grimm.
She did Calderon Bonfiro.
She did all... She's supposed to have done Queen Victoria and the Pope.
She came here in 71, and her CEO is now a museum here, but she gave to the university her butt of Governor Ora Roberts, who was the man who pushed the bill through the legislature to get the university created.
And this little house over here, if you have time, tell me how many of you did it.
All right, this little house on the corner is called Littlefield House.
Littlefield was a Civil War.
He made his money after the war and cattle died.
And he gave, the university had no money.
So he gave them $100,000 to build one building, and that was the University of Texas in 1883.
That's a lot of money.
It was.
It's called the main building.
And then he built that house.
It's a little room on it with shutter doors that open.
So he could sit there in the evening and watch his students walk their building.
He also commissioned a portrait of Robert E. Livingston.
His wife went crazy and went to the bell tower.
There's a painting she did in the downstairs parlors when you go in.
It's Venetian.
Yeah, very murky, dark, dark, dark.
How well did you get to know Dr. Ashton?
Did you work closely with him?
Sort of, yes, after we got started.
As I say, he called me up.
Here's our two.